# Remote-Work-and-Real-Estate
Team project using data analytic skills to look at the Impact of Remote Work on Real Estate. Looking at the Seattle, Washington area in comparison to the Twin Cities, Minnesota area. Using openly sourced data from 2018 to 2022. Results concluding that factors such as Covid-19 having a great impact on leading to remote work showing a correlation to people looking for more home space. 

# Abstract
The objective of this project was to analyze the impact of remote work on the real estate market for Washington and Minnesota metropolitan areas, using data sets obtained from Redfin Real Estate
brokerage, Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Census Bureau, the Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT), and Minnesota State Department of Transportation (MNDOT). We analyzed the data to identify trends in the years 2018-2022 to determine whether there were correlations between work, transportation, rental vacancies, and real estate market patterns. The Covid-19 pandemic impacted the lives of nearly everyone in the world. In the United States, an unprecedented number of people were introduced to remote or hybrid work schedules with little to no warning. Others found themselves unemployed virtually overnight. The real estate market boomed and prices for homes in the suburbs of major metropolitan areas skyrocketed in a way that had never been seen before. Our team set out to uncover patterns between these events and to identify correlations between remote work and real estate. We wanted to know whether our findings for the major metropolitan areas of Seattle and Minneapolis supported earlier research that has been done on the economic impacts of Covid-19. Using various methods analyzing the data over time to geospatial analysis of Washington and Minnesota metro areas the analysis was conclusive. The results demonstrate that outside factors such as Covid-19 impacted the real estate market, unemployment rates, vacancy rates, and rent prices. Traffic data tied these together by showing the rapid decline in rush hour traffic in and out of major metropolitan areas that preceded the changes in the areas listed above. Work from home orders increased the need for remote work, which resulted in unprecedented changes in the real estate market once people began to realize that remote work was not going to be short term. Our conclusion is that remote work, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, influenced real estate markets in the Seattle and Minneapolis regions by increasing demand, particularly for single family homes, and raising median home sale prices.
